19 September 2001Cabinet today started with a moment of silence in honour of those who perished in the terrorist attacks in the USA, and in memory of the late Govan Mbeki. The meeting was briefed on the programme to start implementation of the N2 Wild Coast Toll Road project. This project, which will create thousands of jobs and improve tourist and other infrastructure in the Eastern Cape, will be implemented on a Public/Private Partnership (PPP) basis. The meeting urged all spheres of government to carry out their tasks diligently within agreed timelines. Cabinet examined the implications of the recent terrorist attacks in the USA and set out our principled approach as well as course of action on this issue (see Annexure to this statement). Cabinet also examined the process towards finalising statistical data on mortality in our country. It urged the relevant Departments and Statistics SA to expedite their consultations; and SSA in particular, to explain to the public in an accessible way, their methods and assumptions as well as the process that will result in certified and credible statistics particularly on the impact of HIV/AIDS. The meeting examined preparations for the WTO Ministerial Conference in Qatar, including consultations with other countries in Africa, Latin America and Asia, to develop positions that will promote the interests of developing countries. The meeting was also briefed on preparations for the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD), which will be held in Johannesburg next year. Cabinet noted and welcomed progress with regard to the transformation process in the taxi industry. The following Bills were approved for submission to parliament: The meeting also accepted the recommendation of NEDLAC that Conventions 144 and 145 of the ILO dealing with labour standards be submitted to Parliament for ratification. The meeting approved the White Paper on Sanitation and a National Sanitation Strategy. Cabinet examined progress with regard to the construction of the gas pipeline between SA and Mozambique. The meeting welcomed and approved the Agreement Concerning the Mozambican Gas Pipeline and a Regulatory Agreement among relevant Ministers from the two countries, dealing among other things with the role of SASOL. These agreements will create the necessary environment for this project to be expedited. The following appointments were approved: Cabinet noted the extent of prevalence of malaria in SA, and welcomed the achievements of the malaria control programme. It also decided that special efforts would be made to intensify the programme in the areas covered by the Lubombo Spatial Development Initiative. Enquiries Joel Netshitenzhe Cell: 082 900 0083 Issued by: Government Communications (GCIS) PrinciplesConcrete actionsOur approach to this matter is informed by our values as a nation; and government is of the full conviction that it is in the national interest. we did not fly our flags at half-mast or declare Days of National Mourning. top